Add identifier API methods to TreeAlpha (#24218)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/tricky-shrimps-hunt.md

---
"fluid-framework": minor
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
"__section": feature
---

> TreeAlpha identifier APIs for converting, retrieving, and generating identifiers.

Author: Updated changeset with more details and examples

---
"fluid-framework": minor
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
"__section": feature
---
TreeAlpha identifier APIs for converting, retrieving, and generating identifiers have been added

#### TreeAlpha.identifier

> You can retrieve the long identifier with `TreeAlpha.identifier(node)`, where `node` is a `TreeNode`.

Author: Updated with a explanation of what "long identifier" is

---
"fluid-framework": minor
"@fluidframework/tree": minor
"__section": feature
---

> TreeAlpha identifier APIs for converting, retrieving, and generating identifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TreeAlpha identifier APIs for converting, retrieving, and generating identifiers have been added
```

Author: Updated with suggested change

> ## TreeAlpha.identifier

Reviewer: Headings in changeset bodies must be level 4 or higher, FYI. 
```suggestion
#### TreeAlpha.identifier
```

Author: Updated headings with level 4 or more

You can retrieve the long identifier with `TreeAlpha.identifier(node)`, where `node` is a `TreeNode`.

> If the identifier cannot be returned, it will return `undefined`.

Reviewer: When can the identifier not be returned? Probably worth expanding on this.

> If the identifier cannot be returned, it will return `undefined`.
> 
> ### Example for a valid node with identifier
> ```typescript
> // This returns the long identifier from the node.
> const longIdentifier = TreeAlpha.identifier(node)
> ```
> 
> ### Examples for when you get undefined
> In some cases, this method will be unable to retrieve an identifier.
> This will occur in the following cases:
> - The node does not contain an identifier field.
> - The node is an non-hydrated node with a user provided identifier. Note that if it is an non-hydrated node without an identifier provided, it will throw an error.
> 
> ```typescript
> // This returns undefined.
> const longIdentifier = TreeAlpha.identifier(node)
> ```

Reviewer: I don't think the sample code blocks here add much. It might be better to just note the scenarios where `undefined` above. E.g.

```suggestion
In cases where the node does not yet have an identifier assigned, this will return `undefined`.
These cases include:

- The node does not contain an identifier field.
- The node is a non-hydrated node with a user provided identifier. Note that if it is a non-hydrated node without an identifier provided, it will throw an error.
```

Reviewer: (Similar feedback for the docs on `shorten` and `lengthen`)

Author: Updated with suggested changes
